Added images, clarified fork behavior (#2257)
wandb/docs: models/runs/rewind.mdx

title: Rewind a run
---

> Rewind a run to modify the history of a run without losing the original data. When you rewind a run, W&B resets the state of the run to the specified step, preserves the original data, and maintains the same run ID. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rewind a run to modify the history of a run. When you rewind a run, W&B resets the state of the run to the specified step while maintaining the same run ID. 
```
I think it's a little misleading to say the data is not lost. We don't delete it but it becomes inaccessible to the user

<Warning>

> The option to rewind a run is in private preview and in active development. Contact W&B Support at support@wandb.com to request access to this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The option to rewind a run is in private preview and in active development. Contact W&B Support at support@wandb.com to request access to this feature. Due to known performance limitations with Rewind we typically recommend Forking as an alternative.
```

## Rewind a run

Rewind a run from a specific step and log new data from that point in time. Pass both the run ID and the step you want to rewind from as arguments to the `resume_from` parameter in [`wandb.init()`](/models/ref/python/functions/init). The `resume_from` parameter accepts a string in the format of `<run ID>?_step=<step>`, where `<run ID>` is the run ID of the run you want to rewind and `<step>` is the step you want to rewind from.

Suppose you log a linear line for 300 steps:

```python
import wandb

# Initialize the first run and log some metrics
with wandb.init(project="<project>", entity="wandb") as run:
    for i in range(300):
        # Plot a linear line
        run.log({"metric": i, "step": i})
```

Within your project's workspace, you see a line plot from step 0 to step 300:

<img src="/images/runs/rewind_run_original.png" alt="Line plot of the original run"/>

> At a later time, you want to rewind the run from step 200 and you want to log a new metric called `additional_metric` that logs `i*1.1` from step 200 to step 300. From step 250 you want to log a new subtle wavey pattern (`i**2 + 2*sin(i/3)`) instead of a linear line:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At a later time, you want to rewind the run from step 200 and you want to log a new metric called `additional_metric` that logs `i*1.1` from step 200 to step 300. From step 250 you want to log a new subtle wavy pattern (`i**2 + 2*sin(i/3)`) instead of a linear line:
```

```python
import math

run_ID = "<run_ID>" # Replace with the run ID of the run you want to rewind

# Rewind from the first run at a specific step and log the metric starting from step 200
with wandb.init(project="<project>", entity="wandb", resume_from=f"{run_ID}?_step=200") as run:

    # For the first few steps, log the metric as is from run
    # After step 250, start logging the wavey pattern
    for i in range(200, 300):
        if i < 250:
            run.log({"metric": i, "step": i})  # Continue logging from run without waves
        else:

>             # Introduce the wavey behavior starting from step 250

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            # Introduce the wavy behavior starting from step 250
```

>             subtle_wave = i + (2 * math.sin(i / 3.0))  # Apply a subtle wavey pattern

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            subtle_wave = i + (2 * math.sin(i / 3.0))  # Apply a subtle wavy pattern
```

            run.log({"metric": subtle_wave, "step": i})
        # Additionally log the new metric at all steps
        run.log({"additional_metric": i * 1.1, "step": i})
```

The following image shows the updated project's workpace. Note the following changes in the plot after the rewind:

> - The line plot shows the original linear line from step 0 to step 200 and the new subtle wavey pattern starts from step 250 (left image).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The line plot shows the original linear line from step 0 to step 200 and the new subtle wavy pattern starts from step 250 (left image).
```
